# PA5: Assimp and Model Loading

# Team Specular Bois
The following students are part of the team who made this project:
- Hadi Rumjahn
- David Valenzuela
- Jay Woo

# Dependencies, Building, and Running

## Dependency Instructions
For both of the operating systems to run this project installation of these three programs are required [GLEW](http://glew.sourceforge.net/), [GLM](http://glm.g-truc.net/0.9.7/index.html), and [SDL2](https://wiki.libsdl.org/Tutorials).

This project uses OpenGL 3.3. Some computers, such as virtual machines in the ECC, can not run this version. In in order to run OpenGL 2.7 follow the instructions at [Using OpenGL 2.7](https://github.com/HPC-Vis/computer-graphics/wiki/Using-OpenGL-2.7)

This project also uses Dear ImGui (https://github.com/ocornut/imgui), but all the necessary files are already included in the project.

## Building and Running
To build this project there is a provided Makefile, generated by a CMake, which is used as usual. It is already available in the build folder. To create the program, simply run the make command. Then, run the program.

```bash
cd build
make
./Tutorial
```

# Loading a model

By default, the project loads a cibe object, or in the case that a specified model could not be loaded. To load your own model, place the '**.obj**' file in the '**assets/models/**' subdirectory of the project. Then, when running the program, specify the name of the file as a command line argument (please include '.obj' in the name of the file):

```bash
./Tutorial Buddha.obj
```

If there is a file called 'object.obj' in the 'models/' file, it will load that file. If no file is provided, program will terminate.

# Controls

To reverse the direction of rotation of the object, click on the screen or press the '**A**' key. To make the object rotate specifically in a counter-clockwise direction, press the **left arrow** button. To make it rotate specifically in a clockwise direction, press the **right arrow** button. You can also stop the object from orbiting by pressing the '**S**' key, and stop it from rotating by pressing the '**D**' key. To quit the program, press the **escape button**. There will be an on-screen menu indicating the diretion of rotation of the object.
